# GW Cloud - Bilby module

GW Cloud Bilby module for running bilby jobs from the web.

## Installing locally

### Python (Poetry)

- Install [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation) if you don't have it.

- In the `src/` directory, install dependencies and create the virtualenv:

```bash
cd src/
poetry install
```

- Run commands with the virtualenv via `poetry run` or activate it with:

```bash
. .venv/bin/activate
```

- Migrate the database with

```bash
# From src/, with venv active or via poetry run
poetry run python manage.py migrate
```

### Mysql

If you want to use actual data, you will need to install and configure mysql as well. This is due to the production server using mysql and therefore difficulties in importing a mysql data dump into sqlite

**Note** Some tests fail when running the test suite with a mysql backend. Investigations as to why continue.

- Install mysql-client and mysql-server for your distro

```bash
sudo apt-get install mysql-client mysql-server
```

- Install the mysqlclient python package (e.g. with the Poetry venv active)

```bash
# From src/
poetry run pip install mysqlclient
# note - you may need to install additional packages for this to work
```

- Create schema in mysql : `gwcloud_bilby`
- Create mysql user and grant it all privileges on that schema
- Generate a data dump from production (this is left as an exercise to the reader i.e., get someone with access to do it for you)
- Import the data dump with

```bash
mysql -u <username> -p gwcloud_bilby < <production_dump.sql>
```

- Add a local settings file at `src/gwcloud_bilby/local.py` and add a `DATABASES=` section defining the mysql connection (see `environemnt.py` in that directory for an example)
- Migrate the database

```bash
# From src/
poetry run python manage.py migrate
```

### elasticsearch

To run locally you will need access to an elasticsearch instance, which can be set up by following

```bash
docker network create elastic
docker pull docker.elastic.co/elasticsearch/elasticsearch:8.8.1
docker run --name elasticsearch --net elastic -p 9200:9200 -p 9300:9300 -e "discovery.type=single-node" -e "xpack.security.enabled=false" -e "ES_JAVA_OPTS=-Xms512m -Xmx512m" -t docker.elastic.co/elasticsearch/elasticsearch:8.8.1
```

This will work with the out-of-the-box development settings.

### Jobcontroller

In order to fetch results or file lists you will need to have access to the *production* job controller. To do this, add a `JOB_CONTROLLER_JWT_SECRET=` field to the `local.py` settings file. This `JWT_SECRET` can be generated by Lewis

## Running locally

```bash
# In src/ directory
poetry run python manage.py runserver 8001
# or: . .venv/bin/activate && python manage.py runserver 8001
```

### Styles

The htmx UI stylesheet is compiled from SCSS under `src/static/bilbyui/scss/`.
Bootstrap 4 SCSS is vendored under `scss/vendor/bootstrap/` (no project
`package.json`). Django serves the compiled file as `src/static/bilbyui/app.css`.

**Prerequisites:** install the Dart Sass CLI once (the command is `sass`, not `scss`):

```bash
npm install -g sass
```

**Rebuild CSS** (from the repository root):

```bash
cd src/static/bilbyui
./build-css.sh
```

Or run the compile command directly (requires `sass` on your `PATH`; see
`npm config get prefix` if the global install is not found):

```bash
cd src/static/bilbyui
sass scss/app.scss app.css --no-source-map \
  --silence-deprecation=import,if-function,global-builtin,color-functions,abs-percent
```

After editing SCSS, rebuild and commit the updated `app.css`. More detail lives
in `src/static/bilbyui/README.md`.

## Other commands

- To synchronise the django databases of jobs with the es instance

```bash
# From src/
poetry run python manage.py es_ingest
```

- To regenerate the graphql schema

```bash
# From src/
mkdir -p docs/data
poetry run python manage.py graphql_schema
```
